the US and UK have been launching air
strikes on the houthis in Yemen the
houthis are responsible for attacks on
vessels in and around the Red Sea BBC
verifier we've been looking at what's
going on and the impact it's having
let's start off back in November in this
area off the coast of Yemen this is
where houthis backed by Iran have been
launching attacks on ships the first few
are mostly here in the Red Sea many are
near a pinch point the Babel Manda
straight here's an example when houthi
seiz that part isra owned cargo ship the
Galaxy leader and released this footage
after the initial attacks the US and UK
launched air strikes on the houthis on
the 11th of January there were a second
set on the 22nd and over the weekend
there were more this verified video
shows air strikes in the city of s on
Friday night the UK's defense secretary
said these strikes would further degrade
the abilities of the houthis on Sunday
the US said they targeted missiles being
prepared to launch against ships in the
Red Sea data though shows that hthi
attacks have continued in recent weeks
certainly after the initial us UK
strikes they started to move South into
the Gulf of Aiden one example the Marlin
Luanda a tanker with links to the UK it
was set on fire after being hit by a
missile in the 3 weeks before the first
us and UK strikes there were six attacks
on iips in the 3 weeks since the US and
UK action began there were nine no houy
strikes on chips have been confirmed
since last Thursday but it's too early
to be sure if things are changing and
here's the impact there's a lot less
traffic going through the Red Sea now
the volume's Fallen 30% since mid
January if you look at the red here
vessels are now sailing around Africa
and that takes a lot longer it also
costs more this shows the increased cost
for transporting rate it shot up and
those growing costs will have an impact
here they could mean higher cost for
customers